{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset2 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red32\green33\blue34;\red34\green34\blue34;\red57\green57\blue57;\red56\green56\blue56;\red17\green17\blue17;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\fi-10\li706\sl259\slmult0\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs32\lang9 MICROSPECTRA SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES \par

\pard\fi-10\li706\sa223\sl259\slmult0\qc PVT.LTD.  \par

\pard\li346\sa371\sl259\slmult0\b0\fs40  \fs24\par

\pard\fi-10\li356\ri7\sa438\sl265\slmult0\qj\b Name of the Industry\b0 :  Software Technologies Private Limited    \par

\pard\sa440\sl265\slmult0\qj\tqc\tx2630\tqc\tx5402\tqc\tx6122\f1\fs22         \tab\b\f0\fs24 Name of the Student: \b0 Prajakta Durgadas Pachpor   \b\tab   \tab\b0   \par

\pard\fi-10\li356\ri7\sa438\sl265\slmult0\qj\b Branch of Engineering\b0 : Computer Science and  Engineering\b  \b0  \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa236\sl265\slmult0\qj\b Name of Polytechnic: \b0 Government Polytechnic Khamgaon. \par

\pard\li360\sa445\sl250\slmult0\b\fs28 CASE STUDY:\b0  \fs24\par

\pard\fi-370\li1090\sa204\sl250\slmult0\qj\b\fs32 1.To study Artificial Intelligence its needs & Applications in various domain. \b0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sa154\sl259\slmult0\b\fs32   \b0\fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li644\sa149\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 1.1 Artificial Intelligence :\par

\pard\fi-10\li418\ri7\sa102\sl397\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24                                         According to the father of Artificial Intelligence, John McCarthy, it is \ldblquote The science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer programs\rdblquote . Artificial Intelligence is a way of making a computer, a computer-controlled robot, or a software think intelligently, in the similar manner the intelligent humans think. \par

\pard\fi-10\li418\sa141\sl359\slmult0                              AI is accomplished by studying how human brain thinks, and how humans learn, decide, and work while trying to solve a problem, and then using the outcomes of this study as a basis of developing intelligent software and systems\f2 . \f0\par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa344\sl357\slmult0\qj                               Artificial Intelligence, defined as intelligence exhibited by machines, has many applications in today's society. More specifically, it is{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weak_AI"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weak_AI"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Weak AI,}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  the form of AI where programs are developed to perform specific tasks, that is being utilized for a wide range of activities including{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_diagnosis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_diagnosis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2 medical }}}}{\cf1\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_diagnosis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2 diagnosis}}}}{\cf1\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_diagnosis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2 ,}}}}{\cf1\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_trading_platform"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2  }}}}{\cf1\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_trading_platform"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2 electronic trading platforms}}}}{\cf1\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_trading_platform"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2 ,}}}}{\cf1\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot_control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2  }}}}{\cf1\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot_control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2 robot control,}}}}\cf1\f0\fs24  and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_sensing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_sensing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2 remote sensing.}}}}\cf1\f0\fs24  AI has been used to develop and advance numerous fields and industries, including finance, healthcare, education, transportation, and more. \par
AI For Good is an ITU initiative supporting institutions employing AI to tackle some of the world's greatest economic and social challenges. For example, the University of Southern California launched the Center for Artificial Intelligence in Society, with the goal of using AI to address socially relevant problems such as homelessness. At Stanford, researchers are using AI to analyze satellite images to identify which areas have the highest poverty levels.\par

\pard\li360\sl259\slmult0\f2\fs28  \b\f0 1.2 Needs of Artificial Intelligence: \par
\b0\par
\fs24                                  Artificial Intelligence is the simulation of the human process by machines (computer systems). These processes include the learning, reasoning, and self-correction.\par
                                We need Artificial Intelligence (AI) because the work that we need to do is increasing day-to-day. So it\rquote s a good idea to automate the routine work. This saves the manpower of the organization and also increases the productivity. Additionally, through this Artificial Intelligence, the company can also get the skilled the persons for the development of the company. Moreover the companies today think that they want to mechanize all the regular and routine work. And they think they can automate those regular works through the simple program Because, with the development of data science,  automation becomes more common. The application of this AI is majorly seen at website chat portal. You people when you come to the websites probably seen the welcome message. Then after actual conversation usually starts.\par
\par
\b\fs28 1.3  Applications Artificial Intelligence :\par
\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li1080\sl259\slmult0\b0\fs24 Managing Medical Records and Other Data\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Doing Repetitive Jobs\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}Treatment Design\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}Digital Consultation\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}Virtual Nurses\par
{\pntext\f0 6.\tab}Medication Management\par
{\pntext\f0 7.\tab}Drug Creation\par
{\pntext\f0 8.\tab}Precision Medicine\par
{\pntext\f0 9.\tab}Health Monitoring\par
{\pntext\f0 10.\tab}Healthcare System Analysis\par

\pard\li360\sl259\slmult0\par
\par

\pard\li360\sl361\slmult0\qj\b\fs32 2.To study 3D Printing Technology its needs & Applications in various domain.\par
\par
2.1 3D Printing Technology:  \b0\fs24\par
                                                     3D printing, or additive manufacturing, is the construction of a three-dimensional object from a{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer-aided_design"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer-aided_design"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul CAD}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer-aided_design"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 model or a digital{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_modeling"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_modeling"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 3D model}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_modeling"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  The term "3D printing" can refer to a variety of processes in which material is deposited, joined or solidified under{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_Numerical_Control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_Numerical_Control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul computer }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_Numerical_Control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul control}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_Numerical_Control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 to create a{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-dimensional_space"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-dimensional_space"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul three}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-dimensional_space"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul -}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-dimensional_space"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul dimensional}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-dimensional_space"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 object, with material being added together (such as liquid molecules or powder grains being fused together), typically layer by layer. In the 1980s, 3D printing techniques were considered suitable only for the production of functional or aesthetic prototypes, and a more appropriate term for it at the time was{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapid_prototyping"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapid_prototyping"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul rapid prototyping}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapid_prototyping"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  As of 2019, the precision, repeatability, and material range of 3D printing has increased to the point that some 3D printing processes are considered viable as an industrial-production technology, whereby the term additive manufacturing can be used synonymously with 3D printing. One of the key advantages of 3D printing is the ability to produce very complex shapes or geometries that would be otherwise impossible to construct by hand, including hollow parts or parts with internal truss structures to reduce weight.{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fused_filament_fabrication"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fused_filament_fabrication"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Fused deposition modeling,}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  or FDM, is the most common 3D printing\f2  \cf3 process in use as of 2018. \cf1\f0\par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa280\sl358\slmult0\qj   There are many different branded{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul 3D printing processes}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 that can be grouped into seven categories \cf3\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li744\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Vat }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul photopolymerization}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Material jetting \par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Binder jetting}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}Powder bed fusion \par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Material extrusion}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f0 6.\tab}Directed energy deposition \par
{\pntext\f0 7.\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Sheet lamination}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing_processes"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li744\sa180\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li360\sl259\slmult0\b\i\fs28  \i0 2.2 Needs of 3D Printing :\par
          \par
                      \tab  \b0\fs24 3D printing is inexpensive prosthetics, creating spare parts, rapid prototyping, creating personalized items and manufacturing with minimum waste. The technology is useful and thanks to its widespread availability as well as further development will be even more useful in the future. \par

\pard\li360\sa146\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li360\sa141\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li370\sa226\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 2.3  The Top Five 3D Printing Applications :\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li383\ri7\sa72\sl353\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24 Education. Every day, more schools are incorporating 3D printing methods into their curriculums. \par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li383\ri7\sa74\sl352\slmult0\qj Prototyping and Manufacturing. 3D printing was first developed as a means for faster prototyping. \par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li383\ri7\sa171\sl265\slmult0\qj Medicine. \par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li383\ri7\sa179\sl265\slmult0\qj Construction. \par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent360\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li383\ri7\sa246\sl265\slmult0\qj Art and Jewelry. \par

\pard\li360\sa189\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\fi-370\li1090\sa135\sl250\slmult0\qj\b\fs32 3.\f2  \f0 To study Internet of Things its needs & Applications in various domain. \par

\pard\li360\sa266\sl259\slmult0\qj   \par
\fs28 3.1 Internet Of Things:  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi360\li346\ri748\sa648\sl350\slmult0\qj\tab\tab\tab The Internet of Things is an emerging topic of technical, social, and economic significance. Consumer products, durable goods, cars and trucks, industrial and utility components, sensors, and other everyday objects are being combined with Internet connectivity and powerful data analytic capabilities that promise to transform the way we work, live, and play. Projections for the impact of IoT on the Internet and economy are impressive, with some anticipating as many as 100 billion connected IoT devices and a global economic impact of more than $11 trillion by 2025. \par
           The \ldblquote INTERNET OF THINGS(IOT)\rdblquote  reffers to the ever-growing network of physical objects that features an IP address for Internet Connectivity, and the feature an IP address for Internet connectivity, and the communication that occurs between these objects and other Internetenabled devices and systems.In simple words, IOT is an ecosystem of connected physical objects that are accessible through the Internet.  \par
\b\fs28 3.2 Scope of IOT  :\par

\pard\fi360\li346\ri749\sa648\sl240\slmult1\qj           \b0\fs24  IOT can connect devices embedded in various systems to the internet. When devices/objects can represent themself digitally, they can be controlled from anywhere.   The connectivity then helps us capture more data from more places, ensuring more ways of increasing efficiency.  \par

\pard\fi-10\li356\sa386\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 3.3 Needs of IOT: \par
\b0\fs24   \tab\tab\tab Internet of Things (IoT) makes our world as possible as connected together. Nowadays we almost have internet infrastructure wherever and we can use it whenever. Embedded computing devices would be exposed to internet influence. Common instances for embedded computing devices are MP3 players, MRI, traffic lights, microwave ovens, washing machines and dishwashers, GPS even heart monitoring implants or biochip and etc.\par
\b\fs28 3.4 Why IoT ?:-\par
\b0\fs24 1. Environmental Monitoring\par
2. Infrastructure Management\par
3. Industrial Applications\par
4. Energy Management\par
5. Medical and Healthcare Systems\par
6. Building and Home Automation\par
7. Transport Systems\par
8. Large Scale Deployments\par

\pard\li346\sl259\slmult0  \b\fs28 3.4.\f2  \f0 Application Of  IOT  \par
\par

\pard\li720\sa556\sl240\slmult1\b0\fs24 1.Medicine and Health care\line\line 2.Business Analytics\par
3.Automotive Iot\par
4.Smart city and Homes\par

\pard\li844\sa556\sl259\slmult0\b\f2\fs32  4.\f0 To Study Machine Learning its needs & Applications in various domain.  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\li735\sa155\sl259\slmult0\b\fs32  \fs28 4.1 Machine Learning :\par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa138\sl357\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24                                                    Machine learning (ML) is the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience. It is seen as a subset of{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul artificial intelligence.}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  Machine learning algorithms build a{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_model"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_model"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul mathematical model}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_model"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 based on sample data, known as "{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Training_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul training data}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Training_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul "}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 , in order to make predictions or decisions without being explicitly programmed to do so. Machine learning algorithms are used in a wide variety of applications, such as{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_filtering"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_filtering"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul email filtering}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Email_filtering"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_vision"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_vision"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul computer vision,}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  where it is difficult or infeasible to develop conventional algorithms to perform the needed tasks. \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa94\sl358\slmult0\qj                                                    Machine learning is closely related to{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul computational statistics,}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  which focuses on making predictions using computers. The study of{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_optimization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_optimization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul mathematical optimization}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_optimization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 delivers methods, theory and application domains to the field of machine learning.{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Data }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul mining}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 is a related field of study, focusing on{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\f0\fs24 exploratory data{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul analysis}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 through{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unsupervised_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unsupervised_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul unsupervised learning}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unsupervised_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  In its application across business problems, machine learning is also referred to as{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul predictive analytics}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  \par

\pard\li14\sa165\sl259\slmult0\cf3\f2\fs21  \cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa87\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 4.2 Needs of Machine Learning :\par

\pard\li14\sa50\sl259\slmult0  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa138\sl358\slmult0\qj Data is the lifeblood of all business. Data-driven decisions increasingly make the difference between keeping up with competition or falling further behind. Machine learning can be the key to unlocking the value of corporate and customer data and enacting decisions that keep a company ahead of the competition. \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa118\sl359\slmult0\qj Simply put, machine learning allows the user to feed a computer algorithm an immense amount of data and have the computer analyze and make data-driven recommendations and decisions based on only the input data.\fs21  \fs24\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa138\sl358\slmult0\qj Training is the most important part of Machine Learning. Choose your features and hyper parameters carefully. Machines don't take decisions, people do. Data cleaning is the most important part of Machine Learning \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa89\sl358\slmult0\qj Also, the goal of mechanics is to put up the production and earnings sales with less time and expenses. Machines are necessary in our life, because, all society needs then. Sometimes, the machines are dangerous and replaced labor but without these we cannot live; for this reason a mechanical engineer is very important.\fs21  \fs24\par

\pard\li14\sa296\sl259\slmult0\fs21  \fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa19\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 4.3 Applications of Machine Learning\cf3\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\li14\sa98\sl259\slmult0\cf3\b0\f2\fs21  \cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li14\sa127\sl259\slmult0\cf3\f2\fs21  \cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa391\sl265\slmult0\qj There are many applications for machine learning, including: \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li383\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precision_agriculture"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Agriculture}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precision_agriculture"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_anatomy"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Anatomy}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_anatomy"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptive_website"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Adaptive websites}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptive_website"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affective_computing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Affective computing}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affective_computing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banking"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Banking}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banking"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bioinformatics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Bioinformatics}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bioinformatics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain%E2%80%93machine_interface"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Brain}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain%E2%80%93machine_interface"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul\f3\endash\f3 }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain%E2%80%93machine_interface"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul machine interfaces}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain%E2%80%93machine_interface"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheminformatics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Cheminformatics}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheminformatics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citizen_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Citizen science}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citizen_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_simulation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Computer networks}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_simulation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_vision"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Computer vision}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_vision"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit-card_fraud"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Credit}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit-card_fraud"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul -}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit-card_fraud"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul card fraud}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Credit-card_fraud"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 detection \par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_quality"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Data quality}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_quality"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA_sequence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul DNA sequence}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA_sequence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 classification \par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_economics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Economics}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_economics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_market"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Financial market}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_market"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 analysis  \par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_game_playing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul General game playing}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_game_playing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handwriting_recognition"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Handwriting recognition}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handwriting_recognition"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_retrieval"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Information retrieval}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_retrieval"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insurance"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Insurance}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insurance"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_fraud"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Internet fraud}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_fraud"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 detection \par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_linguistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Linguistics}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_linguistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning_control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Machine learning control}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning_control"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_perception"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Machine perception}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_perception"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_translation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Machine translation}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_translation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Marketing}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_medical_diagnosis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Medical diagnosis}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_medical_diagnosis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_processing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Natural language processing}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_processing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_understanding"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Natural language understanding}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_understanding"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_advertising"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Online advertising}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_advertising"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_optimization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Optimization}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_optimization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recommender_system"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Recommender systems}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recommender_system"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot_locomotion"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Robot locomotion}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robot_locomotion"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Search_engines"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Search engines}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Search_engines"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentiment_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Sentiment analysis}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentiment_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Sequence mining}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_engineering"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Software engineering}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_engineering"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speech_recognition"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Speech recognition}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speech_recognition"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_health_monitoring"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Structural health monitoring}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structural_health_monitoring"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syntactic_pattern_recognition"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Syntactic pattern recognition}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syntactic_pattern_recognition"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telecommunication"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Telecommunication}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telecommunication"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_theorem_proving"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Theorem proving}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_theorem_proving"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_series"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Time series forecasting}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_series"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li383\ri7\sa386\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_behavior_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul User behavior analytics}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_behavior_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li14\sa223\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\fi-370\li730\sa164\sl359\slmult0\b\fs32 5.\f2  \f0 To study   Data Science its needs & Applications in various domain . \b0\fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa302\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28        5.1 Data Science  :\par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa138\sl356\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24         Data science is an{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inter-disciplinary"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inter-disciplinary"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul inter}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inter-disciplinary"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul -}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inter-disciplinary"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul disciplinary}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inter-disciplinary"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 field that uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul knowledge}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and insights from many structural and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unstructured_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unstructured_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul unstructured data}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unstructured_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  Data science is related to{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul data mining}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul machine learning}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul big }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul data}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 Data science is a "concept to unify{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul statistics}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 data analysi{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul s}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul machine }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul learning}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul domain knowledge}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and their related methods" in order to "understand and analyze actual phenomena" with data. It uses techniques and theories drawn from many fields within the context of{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul mathematics}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul statistics}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul computer science}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul domain }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul knowledge}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_knowledge"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul information science}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_award"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_award"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Turing award}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_award"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 winner{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Gray_(computer_scientist)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Gray_(computer_scientist)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Jim Gray}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Gray_(computer_scientist)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 imagined data science as a "fourth paradigm" of science ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empirical_research"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul empirical}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empirical_research"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_research"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_research"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul theoretical}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_research"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul computational}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_science"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and now data-driven) and asserted that "everything about science is changing because of the impact of information technology" and the{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_explosion"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_explosion"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul data deluge}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_explosion"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  \par

\pard\li735\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\keep\keepn\li14\sa144\sl259\slmult0\cf3\b\fs29 5.2 Applications of Data Science \cf1\fs28\par

\pard\li14\sa421\sl259\slmult0\fs16  \b0\fs24    10 applications that build upon the concepts of{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/what-is-data-science/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/what-is-data-science/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Data Science,}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  exploring various domains such as the following: \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Fraud and Risk Detection}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Healthcare}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa112\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Internet Search}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa110\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Targeted Advertising}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Website Recommendations}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa116\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Advanced Image Recognition}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa111\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Speech Recognition}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa116\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Airline Route Planning}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa112\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Gaming}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Augmented Reality}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.edureka.co/blog/data-science-applications/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li15\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj\par
\b\fs28     5.3Need of Data Science :\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li321\sa558\sl259\slmult0                                 Data science helps brands to understand their customers in a much enhanced and empowered manner. Customers are the soul and base of any brand and have a great role to play in their success and failure. With the use of data science, brands can connect with their customers in a personalized manner, thereby ensuring better brand power and engagement. One of the reasons why data science is gaining so much of attention is because it allows brands to communicate their story in such a engaging and powerful manner. When brands and companies utilize this data in a comprehensive manner, they can share their story with their target audience, thereby creating better brand connect. After all, nothing connects with consumers like an effective and powerful story, that can inculcate all human emotions.\par
                                                  Big Data is a new field that is constantly growing and evolving. With so many tools being developed, almost on a regular basis, big data is helping brands and organisations to solve complex problems in IT, human resource, and resource management in an effective and strategic manner. This means effective use of resources, both material and non-material.\par
                                         One of the most important aspect of data science is that its findings and results can be applied to almost any sector like travel, healthcare and education among others. Understanding the implications of data science can go a long way in helping sectors to analyse their challenges and address them in an effective fashion.Data science is accessible to almost all sectors. There is a large amount of data available in the world today and utilising them in an proper manner can spell success and failure for brands and organisations. Utilizing data in a proper manner will hold the key for achieving goals for brands, especially in the coming times.\par

\pard\li14\sa184\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\fi-370\li730\sa135\sl250\slmult0\b\fs32 6.\f2  \f0 To study  Data Analytics its needs & Applications in various domain\b0\fs24  .  \par

\pard\li14\sa232\sl259\slmult0        \par
    \b\fs28 6.1 Data Analytics : \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa138\sl360\slmult1\qj\b0\fs24                                 Data analysis  is a process of inspecting,{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_cleansing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_cleansing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul cleansing}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_cleansing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_transformation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_transformation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul transforming}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_transformation"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_modeling"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_modeling"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul modeling}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul data}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 with the goal of discovering useful information, informing conclusions and supporting decision-making. Data analysis has multiple facets and approaches, encompassing diverse techniques under a variety of names, and is used in different business, science, and social science domains. In today's business world, data analysis plays a role in making decisions more scientific and helping businesses operate more effectively.  \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa138\sl357\slmult0\qj                                           {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Data mining}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_mining"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 is a particular data analysis technique that focuses on statistical modeling and knowledge discovery for predictive rather than purely descriptive purposes, while{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_intelligence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_intelligence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul business intelligence}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_intelligence"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 covers data analysis that relies heavily on aggregation, focusing mainly on business information. In statistical applications, data analysis can be divided into{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Descriptive_statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\f0\fs24 descriptive statistic{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Descriptive_statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul s}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Descriptive_statistics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul ,}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 exploratory data analysi{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul s}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploratory_data_analysis"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 (EDA), and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistical_hypothesis_testing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistical_hypothesis_testing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul confirmatory data analysis}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statistical_hypothesis_testing"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 (CDA). EDA focuses on discovering new features in the data while CDA focuses on confirming or falsifying existing{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypotheses"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypotheses"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul hypotheses}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypotheses"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Predictive }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul analytics}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictive_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 focuses on application of statistical models for predictive forecasting or classification, while{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul text analytics}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text_analytics"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 applies statistical, linguistic, and structural techniques to extract and classify information from textual sources, a species of{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unstructured_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unstructured_data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul unstructured data.}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  All of the above are varieties of data analysis. \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa115\sl360\slmult1\qj {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_integration"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Data integration}}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_integration"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 is a precursor to data analysis, and data analysis is closely linked to{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_visualization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_visualization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul data visualization}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_visualization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 and data dissemination.\par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa115\sl360\slmult1\qj\b\fs28 6.2 Data Analyst Skills \f3\endash  8 Skills\f0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\keep\keepn\fi-360\li720\sa86\sl265\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24    Data Cleaning and Preparation\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Data Analysis and Exploration\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab} Statistical Knowledge\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}Creating Data Visualizations\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab} Creating Dashboards and/or Reports\par
{\pntext\f0 6.\tab} Writing and Communication Skills\par
{\pntext\f0 7.\tab}Domain Knowledge\par
{\pntext\f0 8.\tab}Problem-Solving\par

\pard\li14\sa157\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li385\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 6.3\f2  \f0 Applications of Data Analysis :\par

\pard\li797\sa82\sl259\slmult0  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sa103\sl265\slmult0\tqc\tx407\tqc\tx1141\b\f1\fs22\tab 1.\f2\fs20  \f0\fs24 Finance \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa9\sl358\slmult0\qj\b0 BA is of utmost importance to the finance sector. Data Scientists are in high demand in investment banking, portfolio management, financial planning, budgeting, forecasting, etc. For example: Companies these days have a large amount of financial data. Use of intelligent Business Analytics tools can help use this data to determine the products\rquote  prices. Also, on the basis of historical information Business Analysts can study the trends on the performance of a particular stock and advise the client on whether to retain it or sell it. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sa107\sl265\slmult0\tqc\tx407\tqc\tx1279\b\f1\fs22\tab\f2\fs20  2.\f0\fs24 Marketing \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa138\sl356\slmult0\qj\b0 Studying buying patterns of consumer behaviour, analysing trends, help in identifying the target audience, employing advertising techniques that can appeal to the consumers, forecast supply requirements, etc. \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa17\sl358\slmult0\qj For example: Use Business Analytics to gauge the effectiveness and impact of a marketing strategy on the customers. Data can be used to build loyal customers by giving them exactly what they want as per their specifications.\par
 \par

\pard\keep\keepn\sa104\sl265\slmult0\tqc\tx407\tqc\tx915\b\f1\fs22\tab 3\f4\fs20\'b7\f2  \f0\fs24 HR  \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa111\sl265\slmult0\qj\b0 Professionals \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa5\sl356\slmult0\qj HR professionals can make use of data to find information about educational background of high performing candidates, employee attrition rate, number of years of service of employees, age, gender, etc. This information can play a pivotal role in the selection procedure of a candidate. \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa16\sl356\slmult0\qj For example: HR manager can predict the employee retention rate on the basis of data given by Business Analytics.\par
 \par

\pard\keep\keepn\sa103\sl265\slmult0\tqc\tx407\tqc\tx1021\b\f1\fs22\tab 4\f4\fs20\'b7\f2  \f0\fs24 CRM \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sl358\slmult0\qj\b0 Business Analytics helps one analyse the key performance indicators, which further helps in decision making and make strategies to boost the relationship with the consumers. The demographics, and data about other socio-economic factors, purchasing patterns, lifestyle, etc., are of prime importance to the CRM department. \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sa4\sl361\slmult0\qj For example: The company wants to improve its service in a particular geographical segment. With data analytics, one can predict the customer\rquote s preferences in that particular segment, what appeals to them, and accordingly improve relations with customers. \par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sa103\sl265\slmult0\tqc\tx407\tqc\tx1515\b\f1\fs22\tab 5\f4\fs20\'b7\f2  \f0\fs24 Manufacturing \par

\pard\fi-10\li370\ri7\sl358\slmult0\qj\b0 Business Analytics can help you in supply chain management, inventory management, measure performance of targets, risk mitigation plans, improve efficiency in the basis of product data, etc. \par
For example: The Manager wants information on performance of a machinery which has been used past 10 years. The historical data will help evaluate the performance of the machinery and decide whether costs of maintaining the machine will exceed the cost of buying a new machinery. \par

\pard\li14\sa117\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa192\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\sa204\sl250\slmult0\b\fs32 7.To study Block chain Technology its needs & Applications in various domain . \par
\fs28 7.1 Blockchain Technology:  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa591\sl348\slmult0\qj\tab\tab\tab\tab Blockchain, sometimes referred to as Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT), makes the history of any digital asset unalterable and transparent through the use of decentralization and cryptographic hashing.\par
           A simple analogy for understanding blockchain technology is a Google Doc. When we create a document and share it with a group of people, the document is distributed instead of copied or transferred. This creates a decentralized distribution chain that gives everyone access to the document at the same time. No one is locked out awaiting changes from another party, while all modifications to the doc are being recorded in real-time, making changes completely transparent.  \par

\pard\fi-10\li385\ri7\sa706\sl265\slmult0\qj\f5 v\f2  \f0 Blockchain consists of three important concepts:  \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa566\sl265\slmult0\qj Block  \par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}Miners  \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li735\ri7\sa553\sl265\slmult0\qj Nodes  \b\fs28\par

\pard\li15\ri7\sa553\sl265\slmult0\qj 7.2 Needs of Blockchain Technology \par

\pard\fi-10\li9\sa449\sl359\slmult0\b0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab Blockchain brings trust, accountability, and transparency to digital transactions. All transactions that exist on a blockchain are shared and distributed among a network of peer-topeer computers. Transactions are encrypted before they are stored and shared. \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Blockchain is a better, safer way to record activity and keep data fresh, while maintaining a record of its history. The data can't be corrupted by anyone or accidentally deleted, and you benefit from both a historical trail of data, plus an instantly up-to-date record. \par

\pard\li14\sa602\sl259\slmult0\b\fs28 7.3 Application of Blockchain Technology\b0\fs24  :\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa305\sl265\slmult0 1. Supply chain management\par
2. Digital IDs\par
3. Healthcare\par
4. Wills or inheritances\par
5. Food safety\par
6. Digital voting\par
7. Real estate\par
8. Data sharing\par
9. Weapons tracking\par
10. Copyright and royalty protection\par
\b\fs32 8.\f2  \f0 To study  of Cyber security its needs & Applications in various domain .  \b0\fs24\par
\b\fs28 8.1 Cyber Security :\par

\pard\fi-360\li735\ri7\sl356\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24 1.\f2  \f0 Cyber security or information technology security are the techniques of protecting computers, networks, programs and data from unauthorized access or attacks that are aimed for exploitation. \par

\pard\sa118\sl265\slmult0\tqc\tx1027\tqc\tx2343\tqc\tx3743\tqc\tx4988\tqc\tx6118\tqc\tx7540\tqr\tx9063\f1\fs22\tab\f0\fs24 Major \tab areas \tab covered \tab in \tab cyber \tab security \tab are: \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-264\li999\ri7\sa106\sl265\slmult0\qj Application \par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}Information \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-264\li999\ri7\sa107\sl265\slmult0\qj DisasterRecovery \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-264\li999\ri7\sa111\sl265\slmult0\qj Network \par

\pard\li735\sa112\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa5\sl356\slmult0\qj Application security encompasses measures or counter-measures that are taken during the development life-cycle to protect applications from threats that can come through flaws in the application design, development, deployment, upgrade or maintenance. \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa110\sl265\slmult0\qj Some basic techniques used for application security are:  \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-423\li1518\ri7\sa110\sl265\slmult0\qj Input parameter validation \par
{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}User/Role Authentication & Authorization \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-423\li1518\ri7\sl364\slmult0\qj Session management, parameter manipulation & exception management d)\f2  \f0  Auditing \par

\pard\li1455\sa112\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa112\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa118\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sl356\slmult0\qj Information security protects information from unauthorized access to avoid identity theft and to protect privacy.  \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa106\sl265\slmult0\qj Major techniques used to cover this are: \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-259\li994\ri7\sa112\sl265\slmult0\qj Identification, authentication & authorization of user \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-259\li994\ri7\sa106\sl265\slmult0\qj Cryptography. \par

\pard\li735\sa112\sl259\slmult0  \par
 \par

\pard\li735\sa117\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj Network security includes activities to protect the usability, reliability, integrity and \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sl360\slmult1\qj safety of the network. Effective network security targets a variety of threats and stops them from entering or spreading on the network.  \par

\pard\fi-10\li745\ri7\sa110\sl265\slmult0\qj Network security components include:  \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-423\li1518\ri7\sa110\sl265\slmult0\qj Anti-virus and anti-spyware, \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-423\li1518\ri7\sa115\sl265\slmult0\qj Firewall, to block unauthorized access to your network,  \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-423\li1518\ri7\sa4\sl356\slmult0\qj Intrusion prevention systems (IPS), to identify fast-spreading threats, such as zero-day or zero-hour attacks \par

\pard{\pntext\f7\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf7\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-423\li1518\ri7\sa112\sl259\slmult0\qj Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), to provide secure remote access.{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/definition/cryptography"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\f0\fs24\tab\par

\pard\li14\sl259\slmult0\cf5  \cf1  \b\fs28 8.2 Needs of Cyber Security: \par
\b0\f2\fs24  \f0\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa138\sl357\slmult0\qj\tab\tab\tab\tab Cyber security protects the data and integrity of computing assets belonging to or connecting to an organization's network. Its purpose is to defend those assets against all threat actors throughout the entire life cycle of a cyber attack. Cybersecurity is important because it encompasses everything that pertains to protecting our sensitive data, personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), personal information, intellectual property, data, and governmental and industry information systems from theft and damage attempted \par
\tab\tab\tab\tab Cyber security demands focus and dedication. Cyber security protects the data and integrity of computing assets belonging to or connecting to an organization's network. Its purpose is to defend those assets against all threat actors throughout the entire life cycle of a cyber attack. \par

\pard\li14\sa153\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa62\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 8.3 Applications of Cyber Security:\par
 \par
\b0\fs24 1.Provides protection against malware, ransomware, phishing and social engineering in business.\par
2.Cybersecurity protects the data and networks.\par
3.The digital assets are protected by preventing unauthorized users from accessing it.\par
4.The recovery time after a breach is improved.\par
5.Cyber Security provides protection for end-users and their personal information.\par
6.Confidence is improved in the organization because of cybersecurity\b\fs28 .\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\fs32 9.\f2  \f0 To study of Cloud computing its needs & Applications in various domain.  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\li735\sa154\sl259\slmult0\b\fs32  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa149\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 9.1 Cloud Computing :\par

\pard\fi-10\li385\ri7\sa138\sl357\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul computer}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_resource"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_resource"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul system resources,}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  especially data storage ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_storage"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul cloud storage)}}}}\f0\fs24  and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computing_power"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computing_power"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul computing power,}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_center"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_center"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul data centers}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_center"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 available to many users over the{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul Internet.}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  Large clouds, predominant today, often have functions distributed over multiple locations from central{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_(computing)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_(computing)"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul servers.}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  If the connection to the user is relatively close, it may be designated an{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edge_server"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edge_server"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul edge server}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edge_server"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  \par

\pard\fi-10\li385\ri7\sa138\sl356\slmult0\qj Clouds may be limited to a single{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul organization}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 (enterprise clouds), or be available to many organizations (public cloud). \par

\pard\fi-10\li385\ri7\sa115\sl360\slmult1\qj Cloud computing relies on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economies_of_scale"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economies_of_scale"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul economies of }}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economies_of_scale"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul scale}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economies_of_scale"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul .}}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24  \tab\tab\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab Advocates of public and hybrid clouds note that cloud computing allows companies to avoid or minimize up-front{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IT_infrastructure"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IT_infrastructure"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul IT infrastructure}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IT_infrastructure"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 costs. Proponents also claim that cloud computing allows{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Company"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Company"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul enterprises}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Company"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 to get their applications up and running faster, with improved manageability and less maintenance, and that it enables IT teams to more rapidly adjust resources to meet fluctuating and unpredictable demand, providing the burst computing capability: high computing power at certain periods of peak demand.  \par

\pard\fi-10\li385\ri7\sa118\sl358\slmult0\qj Cloud providers typically use a "pay-as-you-go" model, which can lead to unexpected{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_expense"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_expense"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul operating expenses}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_expense"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 if{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_administrator"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_administrator"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul administrators}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_administrator"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 are not familiarized with cloud-pricing models.  \par

\pard\li375\sa271\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa225\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 9.2 Needs of Cloud Computing: \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa181\sl358\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24                      Cloud computing facilitates the access of applications and data from any location worldwide and from any device with an internet connection. Cost savings; Cloud computing offers businesses with scalable computing resources hence saving them on the cost of acquiring and maintaining them. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa62\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 9.3 Application of Cloud Computing :\par
\par

\pard\li14\sl259\slmult0\cf4\b0\f2\fs24  \cf1\f0                 Cloud service providers provide various applications in the field of art, business, data storage and backup services, education, entertainment, management, social networking, etc.\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\b\fs28 10.\f2  \f0 To study Industry 4.0 its needs and List Minimum 20  IT Product based  & Service based Industry. \b0\fs24\par

\pard\li735\sl259\slmult0\b\fs28  \b0\fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa225\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 10.1 Industry 4.0 :\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa396\sl361\slmult0\qj\b0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab Industry 4.0 is used interchangeably with the fourth industrial revolution and represents a new stage in the organization and control of the industrial value chain. \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Cyber-physical systems form the basis of Industry 4.0 (e.g., \lquote smart machines\rquote )\i .\i0  They use modern control systems, have embedded software systems and dispose of an Internet address to connect and be addressed via{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.i-scoop.eu/internet-of-things-guide/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}{\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.i-scoop.eu/internet-of-things-guide/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul IoT}}}}{\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.i-scoop.eu/internet-of-things-guide/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2\cf2\ul  }}}}\cf1\ulnone\f0\fs24 (the Internet of Things)\i .\i0  This way, products and means of production get networked and can \lquote communicate\rquote , enabling new ways of production, value creation, and real-time optimization\cf6\f6\fs23 . \cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li9\sa106\sl265\slmult0\b\fs28 10.2 Needs of Industry 4.0 :\par

\pard\li14\sa64\sl259\slmult0\cf4  \cf1\b0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab The reasons why industry 4.0 is important are the benefits. It helps manufacturers with current challenges by becoming more flexible and reacting to changes in the market easier. It can increase the speed of innovation and is very consumer centered, leading to faster design processes. \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa138\sl356\slmult0\qj Small scale industries are important because it helps in increasing employment and economic development of India. It improves the growth of the country by increasing urban and rural growth. ... The industry is a sector in which the production of goods is a segment of the economy. \par

\pard\li14\sa247\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa682\sl259\slmult0\cf7\b\fs28 10.3 Top 20 Product Based Companies in Bangaluru India \cf1\b0\fs24\par

\pard\li692\sa276\sl259\slmult0\cf7 1.\f2  \b\f0 Adobe  \b0  \cf1\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa138\sl376\slmult0\qj Adobe Inc. was founded in December 1982 in a garage by John Warnock and Charles Geschke. Name of the company, Adobe comes from Adobe Creek in Los Altos, California, which ran behind Warnock\rquote s house. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa435\sl265\slmult0 2.\f2  \b\f0 Amazon \b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa384\sl360\slmult1\qj\b0 Amazon does not need any introduction in today\rquote s World. Jeff Bezos founded Amazon on July 5, 1994, in Bellevue, Washington, USA. Some of the best products from Amazon are: \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa455\sl356\slmult0\qj Amazon.com is the World\rquote s # 1 e-commerce website; Cloud computing, and AI-based products, including Amazon Alexa, Amazon Fire TV, Amazon Kindle, etc. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 3.\f2  \b\f0 Amdocs  \b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa389\sl356\slmult0\qj\b0 Amdocs is a market leader in Telecom Domain products and services. Morris Kahn founded Amdocs in 1982 in Israel. \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa450\sl360\slmult1\qj Amdocs(then Aurec Information & Directory Systems) developed a billing software program for phone directory companies. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 4.\f2  \b\f0 BMC  \b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa450\sl360\slmult1\qj\b0 Three Shell Oil employees, Scott Boulette, John J. Moores, and Dan Cloer, founded BMC in September 1980 in Houston, Texas, USA. Companies are derived from their surname initials. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 5.\f2  \b\f0 CISCO  \b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa452\sl358\slmult0\qj\b0 Leonard Bosack & Sandy Lerner, two Stanford University computer professional, founded Cisco in December 1984; Their concept was based on a local area network (LAN) being used to connect geographically disparate computers over a multiprotocol router system. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 6.\f2  \b\f0 FACEBOOK\b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj\b0 Facebook was founded by Mark Zuckerberg and five other Harvard fellow in 2004. \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa457\sl358\slmult0\qj Facebook is a social media, advertising, and technology company. Some of the top products are Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, Watch, Portal, Oculus, Calibra, Giphy, and other products like Messenger, Watch, and Portal. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 7.\f2  \b\f0 Google\b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa454\sl357\slmult0\qj\b0 Ph.D. students from Stanford University, Sergey Brin and Larry Page started Google search engine as one of their research projects in 1996. They came up with a game-changing algorithm called PageRank.The name was a misspelling of the word \ldblquote googol.\rdblquote  Google\rquote s initial public offering (IPO) happened in 2004. Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and Eric Schmidt decided to work at Google until 2024. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 8.\f2  \b\f0 Hewlett-Packard (HP)\b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa458\sl358\slmult0\qj\b0 In 1938, Packard and Hewlett, with 538 dollars, started a part-time job in a rented garage. In 1939 they formed a partnership and decided the name of the company Hewlett-Packard. HP incorporated in August 1947 and went public in November 1957. In a critical piece of their circuit, they used a small incandescent light bulb as a resistor, which is temperature-dependent. \par

\pard\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 9.\f2  \b\f0 International Business Machines Corporation (IBM):\b0  \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa459\sl356\slmult0\qj IBM is often considered one of the best companies on the planet. In the 1880s, four technologies developed the blueprint of what International Business Machines (IBM) is today. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li687\sa407\sl265\slmult0 10.\f2  \b\f0 Intel\b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa387\sl358\slmult0\qj\b0 Intel was founded in 1968 Arthur Rock, along with Gordon E. Moore and Robert Noyce. It is a semiconductor chip manufacturing company used in computer microprocessors. They were the suppliers to computer system manufacturing companies like HP, Apple, Dell, Lenovo. Intel means intelligence information. \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa138\sl265\slmult0\qj Some of the best products from Intel are: \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa459\sl357\slmult0\qj SRAM and DRAM, semiconductor chipsets, motherboard chipsets, network interface controllers, integrated circuits, flash memory, graphics chips, embedded processors, and other devices used for communication and computing. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\fi-10\li385\sa407\sl265\slmult0 11.\f2  \b\f0 Microsoft  \b0  \b\par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa394\sl356\slmult0\qj\b0 Bill Henry Gates and Paul Allen founded Microsoft in 1975. In the 1980\rquote s it dominated the personal computer operating system space with MS-DOS, and currently Microsoft Windows. \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa496\sl265\slmult0\qj Some of the best products from Microsoft are: \par

\pard\fi-10\li33\ri7\sa394\sl356\slmult0\qj IntruShield, McAfee Change Control, McAfee DAT Reputation, McAfee E-Business Server, McAfee Entercept, McAfee SiteAdvisor, McAfee VirusScan. \par

\pard\li14\sa502\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa506\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa502\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa506\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa545\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sl259\slmult0\f1\fs22  \f0\fs24  \par

\pard\sa242\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa13316\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li1118\sa272\sl259\slmult0\par

\pard\li403\sa233\sl259\slmult0\qc\i\fs20  \i0\fs24\par

\pard\li403\sa237\sl259\slmult0\qc\i\fs20  \i0\fs24\par

\pard\li360\sl259\slmult0\i\fs20  \i0\fs24\par
\i\fs20  \i0\fs24\par
\i\fs20  \i0\fs24\par
\i\fs20  \i0\fs24\par

\pard\li844\sa556\sl259\slmult0\par

\pard\li14\sa199\sl259\slmult0  \par

\pard\li14\sa115\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\li14\sa110\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\li14\sa115\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par
\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par
\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par
\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\li14\sa110\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par

\pard\li14\sa115\sl259\slmult0\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par
\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par
\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par
\cf4\f2  \cf1\f0\par
\par
}
 